gh-110289: C API: Add PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8() function (#110297)
python/cpython: Doc/c-api/unicode.rst

   :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` to check for errors.

.. c:function:: int PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8(PyObject *unicode, const char *string)

   Compare a Unicode object with a UTF-8 encoded C string and return true

>    if they are equal and false otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Compare a Unicode object with a UTF-8 encoded C string and return non-zero
   if they are equal or 0 otherwise.
```

Author: It looks to me, that "return true" is more often used than "return non-zero". In this case it is more accurate, because it always returns 1, not other non-zero value. Perhaps other functions which return non-zero was a macro that returned not 1 (something like `(arg->flags & FLAG)`)?

   If the Unicode object contains null or surrogate characters or

>    the C string not encoded to UTF-8 return false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the C string is not encoded to UTF-8 return 0.
```

Reviewer 2: I might be mistaken, but I think the _return 0_ part warrants a comma:

_"If [...] or [...], return 0."_

cc. @AA-Turner

>    This function does not raise exceptions.

Reviewer: Can you say something to repeat that passing ASCII strings are perfectly fine?

Author: Do we have something similar in other functions that take `const char*` argument?

Reviewer: I don't think that documentation of other functions say something about "C string is not encoded to UTF-8". Hum. I propose to replace:

```
the C string is not encoded to UTF-8 return false.
```

with:

```
the C string is not encoded to UTF-8 nor to ASCII return false.
```

I'm not sure that all users are aware that UTF-8 is a superset of ASCII.

Author: Should not we add "or ASCII" to every "UTF-8" in the C API documentation.

Reviewer: I only have concerns about this function because there are variants which are for "ASCII-only", a variant for "Latin1". So it can be misleading. I prefer to be more explicit than usual in this function documentation.

   :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` to check for errors.

> .. c:function:: int PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8AndSize(PyObject *unicode, const char *string, Py_ssize_t size)

Reviewer: What do you think about renaming `string` to `utf8_str`? The `utf8_` would be another way to document that it's expected to be encoded to UTF-8 and also it's easier (for me) to distinguish that the second argument is a bytes string, since `string` name is quite generic.

Author: It is a part of the bigger issue. See #62897.

   Compare a Unicode object with a char buffer which is interpreted as
   being UTF-8 or ASCII encoded and return true (``1``) if they are equal,
   or false (``0``) otherwise.
   If the Unicode object contains surrogate characters or

>    the C string is not valid UTF-8, false (``0``) is returned.

Reviewer: Would you mind to explicit the behavior on null characters and null bytes?

Author: What should be added?

Reviewer: I'm not sure :-( I propose:

```
While :c:func:`PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8` returns false if the Unicode
object contains null characters, :c:func:`PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8AndSize`
does not treat null characters/bytes differently than other characters/bytes:
*unicode* can contain null characters and *string* can contain null bytes.
```

Reviewer: Is it the first C API that we have which treat null characters/bytes differently between the null-terminated flavor and the WithSize() flavor?

Author: Some C API which returns C strings, treat them differently -- if it can return size, embedded null characters/bytes are allowed, it it cannot, the returned string is null-terminated, and embedded nulls are forbidden. It was not always so, it is a latter fix for security.

C API which takes C strings, usually do not treat null characters/bytes specially, unless the underlying layer has limitations. And `PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8()` also do not treat them specially. It is just that the first null in the C string is terminating, so null in the Unicode object cannot match.

Reviewer: You're right. Maybe just ignore my point and leave the doc as it is. I mark this discusssion as resolved.

   This function does not raise exceptions.

   .. versionadded:: 3.13

.. c:function:: int PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8(PyObject *unicode, const char *string)

>    Similar to :c:func:`PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8AndSize`, but compute the string

Reviewer: Since both arguments are string, I suggest to use italic to show that you're talking about the second argument :-)

```suggestion
   Similar to :c:func:`PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8AndSize`, but compute *string*
```

or:

```
the *string* string 
```

   :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` to check for errors.

.. c:function:: int PyUnicode_EqualToString(PyObject *unicode, const char *string)

   Compare a Unicode object with a UTF-8 encoded C string and return true
   if they are equal and false otherwise.

>    This function does not raise exceptions.

Reviewer: Can you please document the behavior if *string* is not UTF-8 encoded but encoded to Latin1 or something else? What happens? Crash? Undefined behavior?

Author: It returns false.

Reviewer: Good, it's a sane behavior.

   :c:func:`PyErr_Occurred` to check for errors.

.. c:function:: int PyUnicode_EqualToUTF8(PyObject *unicode, const char *string)

>    Compare a Unicode object with a UTF-8 encoded C string and return true (``1``)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Compare a Unicode object with a UTF-8 encoded or ASCII encoding C string and return true (``1``)
```

Author: Maybe "ASCII encoded"?

>    and return true (``1``) if they are equal and false (``0``) otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   and return true (``1``) if they are equal, or false (``0``) otherwise.
```

   If the Unicode object contains null or surrogate characters or

>    the C string is not encoded to UTF-8 or ASCII, return false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the C string is not encoded to UTF-8 or ASCII, return false (``0``) .
```

>    the C string is not encoded to UTF-8 or ASCII, return false (``0``) .

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   the C string is not valid UTF-8, false (``0``) is returned.
```

Reviewer: I asked Serhiy to write "UTF-8 or ASCII", since I expect that most developers don't know that UTF-8 is a superset of ASCII. Also, because Python C API has a complicated set of functions with strange rules about encodings: see previous comments on this PR.

Reviewer 3: > I asked Serhiy to write "UTF-8 or ASCII", since I expect that most developers don't know that UTF-8 is a superset of ASCII.

Hmm... why not, but someone _not_ knowing that UTF8 is a superset of ASCII should perhaps not deal with encodings at all :-)

(also, how often are you sure that a string is pure ASCII these days? even Python identifiers are now Unicode)

Reviewer: > (also, how often are you sure that a string is pure ASCII these days? even Python identifiers are now Unicode)

Basically all Python identifiers are ASCII in the Python code base.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, so what?
